## Abstract {.page_break_before}

Cryo-electron Tomography (Cryo-ET) has the potential to reveal cell structure down to atomic resolution.
Nevertheless, cellular cryo-ET data is often highly complex and visualization, as well as quantification, of subcellular structures require image segmentation.
Due to a relatively high level of noise and to anisotropic resolution in cryo-ET data, automatic segmentation based on classical computer vision approaches usually does not perform satisfyingly.
For this reason, cryo-ET researchers have mostly performed manual segmentation.

Communication between neurons rely on neurotransmitter-filled synaptic vesicle (SV) exocytosis.
Recruitment of SVs to the plasma membrane is an important means of regulating exocytosis and is influenced by interactions between SVs.
Cryo-ET study of the spatial organization of SVs and of their interconnections allows a better understanding of the mechanisms of exocytosis regulation.
To obtain a faithful representation of SV connectivity state, an absolutely vital prerequisite is an extremely accurate SV segmentation.
Hundreds to thousands of SVs are present in a typical synapse, and their manual segmentation is a burden.
Typically accurately segmenting all SVs in one synapse takes between 3 to 8 days.
`Amin: Personaly I do not like this sentcene casue its a bit relative I rather to mention each tomogram contains several hundered vesicles`{.green}.
This segmentation process has been widely recognized as a bottleneck by the community.

Several attempts to automate vesicle segmentation by classical computer vision or machine learning algorithms have not yielded very robust results.
We addressed this problem by designing a workflow consisting of a U-Net convolutional network followed by post-processing steps.
This combination yields highly accurate results.
Furthermore, we provide an interactive tool for accurately segmenting spherical vesicles in a fraction of the time required by available manual segmentation methods.
This tool can be used to segment vesicles that were missed by the fully automatic procedure or to quickly segment a handful of vesicles, while bypassing the fully automatic procedure.
Our pipeline can in principle be used to segment any spherical vesicle in any cell type as well as extracellular vesicles.
